.TH "mbusd" 8 "13 September 2003" "mbusd 0.1.1" 
.SH NAME
mbusd \- OpenMODBUS/TCP to MODBUS RTU gateway server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mbusd
.RB [ -h ]
.RB [ -d ]
.RB [ -v
.IR level ]
.RB [ -L
.IR name ]
.RB [ -p
.IR name ] 
.RB [ -s
.IR value ] 
.RB [ -P
.IR number ] 
.RB [ -C
.IR number ]
.RB [ -N
.IR number ] 
.RB [ -R
.IR value ] 
.RB [ -W
.IR value ] 
.RB [ -T
.IR value ] 
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fImbusd\fR is OpenMODBUS/TCP to MODBUS RTU gateway server.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP \fB-h\fR
Usage help.
.IP \fB-d\fR
Instruct \fImbusd\fR not to fork itself (non-daemonize).
.IP "\fB-v \fIlevel\fR"
Specifies log verbosity level. 0 enables logging of errors only, 
1 also enables warnings and 2 enables information messages.
If \fImbusd\fR was compiled in debug mode, valid log levels is up to 9, 
where log levels above 2 forces logging of information about additional 
internal events.
.IP "\fB-L \fIname\fR"
Specifies log file name.
.IP "\fB-p \fIname\fR"
Specifies serial port device name.
.IP "\fB-s \fIvalue\fR"
Specifies serial port speed.
.IP "\fB-P \fInumber\fR"
Specifies TCP port number.
.IP "\fB-C \fInumber\fR"
Specifies maximum number of simultaneous connections.
.IP "\fB-N \fInumber\fR"
Specifies maximum number of request retries. 0 - no retries.
.IP "\fB-R \fIvalue\fR"
Specifies pause between requests in miliseconds.
.IP "\fB-W \fIvalue\fR"
Specifies response wait time in miliseconds.
.IP "\fB-T \fIvalue\fR"
Specifies connection timeout value in seconds. 0 - no timeout.
.SH NOTES
Because MODBUS RTU protocol have situations which can't straightforwardly 
translated into MODBUS/TCP protocol entities, \fImbusd\fR extends standard excepton codes set.
In case of situation when \fImbusd\fR received response with invalid CRC and can't correct
error by re-request, it returns MODBUS/TCP packet with exception code 128. In case of situation 
when \fImbusd\fR can't receive response from MODBUS RTU device (e.g. addressed controller 
is not present on the network), it returns MODBUS/TCP packet with exception code 129.
.SH FILES
.PP
The default locations of the \fImbusd\fR log file is:
.PP
/var/log/mbusd.log
.SH BUGS
Broadcast messaging on MODBUS network isn't supported.

Please send bug reports to author.
.SH AUTHOR
Victor Antonovich <avmlink@vlink.ru>.
.SH LICENSE
This program is distributed under the BSD-like license, included in
each source file. See also COPYING file in the installation directory.
